by collecting solar power so efficiently
reptiles need to use very little of the
energy they generate themselves to warm
their bodies in fact they use around a
tenth compared with a mammal of a
similar size that means they don't have
to eat very often a puff adder like this
one can wait almost indefinitely for its
next meal amongst predators patience
really is the virtue whilst waiting for
a meal to wander within striking
distance a snake
shuts down its body processes so that it
uses the minimum amount of energy only
the equivalent of a pilot light is left
on and it can remain like this for weeks
all around it mammals are expending
their energy in a way that compared with
the snake seems extraordinarily
extravagant
but when a state needs to move fast they
can do so with lightning speed
once its prey is secured a snake can
take its time over its meal this
gigantic Python is feeding on a deer a
Python kills its prey by wrapping its
coils around it and squeezing its
victims so tightly and for so long that
it can no longer breathe but swallowing
its meal takes time the deer will go
down headfirst it's much easier that way
the ligaments connecting the snakes
upper and lower jaw elastics
so that it can engulf the deers head
even though it is much bigger than its
own with its mouth stretched tightly
around its meal the snake can't breathe
in a normal way but it's able to push
the top of its windpipe right out of its
mouth and so continue to take in air
after some hours all the commission of
the deer are its hind legs
once the meal has been completely
swallowed the inner workings of the
snake's body changed greatly its
digestive processes switch to full power
and increase their activity 40 times
there is an explosion of biochemical
activity the liver the secretions of
which power digestion doubles in size
within two days the heart grows by some
40 percent
[Music]
it will take the Python at least a week
to completely digest this enormous meal
but then it will not need to feed again
for months or even a year